So a container, is kinda three
different kernel features put together.
One of them here is,
I'm gonna say change root because every
time I say cha-root, I feel ridiculous.
But I know most people
say that as cha-root.
So that's one of the features.
The next feature will be name spaces, and
then the feature after that will
be control cha-root or c-groups.
And these kind of three things
combined together form a container.
That's why I said there's no
one idea of a single container.
It's actually these three things put
together, allow you to make a container.
Okay?
So let's start with the first and kind of
most obvious problem, that if I have two
people running processes on
the same host operating system.
How can I make sure that they
can't see each other's files.
So if I download like my secret
recipe unto my web server.
I don't why has their secret
recipe on their web server.
Seems like a bad idea, but
in this example they do.
But I wanna make sure that no one
else can see into the container.
And I don't want anyone inside of any
other container to be able to see out to
other ones.
So that's what we're gonna do
with change root or Linux jails.
That's what these used to be called as
you're jailing a process to a particular
part of the operating system.
So, let's go ahead and give it a shot.
So, by this point hopefully
you have Docker installed.
If not, please do that.
I'm going to be doing
this all within Docker.
The reason being is that,
I'm running right now on MacOS.
And my MacOS doesn't
have the same parameters,
because it is not a Linux kernel, right?
It's a Unix based kernel,
FreeBSD kind of stuff.
So I'm actually going to be doing
all these examples from within
a Docker container.
So I'm gonna be building
containers within containers,
like containers all the way down, nested
virtualization as people like to call it.
And you can do this too.
So I'm gonna copy this command right here.
And I promise you by
the end of this course,
you will understand exactly what
this particular thing is doing.
But for now, just trust me
that all this is gonna do is,
it's gonna start up a Ubuntu container and
then drop me inside of it.
Now you can do this with an iTerm.
You can do this within any
emulators you want to.
But being on the VS code team, I'm gonna
show you as much VS code as I possibly can
get in here before they throw me out.
Okay.
I'm actually doing this within zsh.
But, this shouldn't make zero difference
to you, you can be in zsh or bash.
I tried this in bolt and
all these commands will work both ways.
So I copied again, wherever it was.
This command right here,
docker run- it -- name docker-host
--rm -- privilege ubuntu : bionic.
Paste that in here.
And it should,
if you don't already have Ubuntu Bionic
pulled, it will take a second to download.
I think it's like 150-ish megabytes.
It's my guess, I don't remember.
You can see here now,
I'm in this root at something.
So if you say cat /etc/ Issue,
it'll tell you that you
are in Ubuntu 18.04 3 LTS.
This is a nice trick,
cuz sometimes when you're in containers,
you don't actually know which
distribution in Linux you're in.
This will tell you with across
all distributions of Linux which
one you're in.
If you're using Linux directly, you don't
have to drop into a container like this.
You can just do this all directly
within Linux, same thing with WSL.
If you're in Windows, then you're gonna
have to probably do the same thing here.
So I'm gonna switch over to my
Windows computer really quick,
just to show you that this actually
can be done as well from PowerShell.
So I'm gonna open the Start bar here and
I'm just gonna say PowerShell,
which should open this.
You can also do this within Windows
Terminal, you can do this within VS Code.
I'm just gonna show you from the
PowerShell app directly, because I know
all of you have it installed,
because we installed it for you.
Well, let's actually do this
within the Windows Terminal, but
you now know where the PowerShell app is.
So, I'm gonna take that send
command that I copied and
pasted on my Mac here in the Powershell,
and I just paste that docker run -it
--name docker-host --rm
--privileged ubuntu:bionic.
And if I run that, you can see here.
I'm in Ubuntu as well.
So this will work within PowerShell.
And actually for most of the course, this
should work pretty well for you as well.
Again, not a PowerShell person,
I just want to show you that is available,
that does work.
Okay, I'm gonna go back to Mac now.
Back to the comfort of the computer
that I know much better.
So again in the solutions repo,
I actually have a script that will
run through all of these things for
you, so that you can just run the script
and it'll run everything for you.
But we're gonna type it by hand,
because I think it's useful to
create these things by hand.
So our goal here,
so you can see I can see my entire
user system right now if I type ls.
Which stands for list.
I wanna get it so that I have
a process that's limited to one
folder within my particular
operating system.
So I'm gonna make a new directory and
say, my new root.
Let's do that.
So mkdir, means make directory.
So you can see here now I have
this my-new-root directory, so
I'm going to CD into my-new-root.
Nothing in here.
Now the first thing I need to do is I
need to, I can't just say chroot.bash.
So you have to tell it where do you want
to be limited to, and then if you tell
what to run afterwards, whether I
wanna run a new shell inside of that.
If I do this it's gonna say,
I don't know where bash is, what is bash?
Because there's no bash in here.
So you actually have to make a copy of
the operating system inside of here,
because once it's inside of here,
you won't be calling outside of it.
It literally can't.
So it can't find bash, it can't find ls,
it can't find all of these things
that would normally be available.
So I can do that.
So I can say, I'm gonna see
it out here and say copy from
bin/bash, let's see, I have to make
a directory inside of my node.
First I'm gonna say,
mkdir inside of my-new-root/bin.
And I'm saying copy from bin/bash, and
I'm gonna copy that into my new root/bin/.
So now if I say ls my-new-root/bin,
cool, now there's bash.
So can I say, chroot my-new-root/ bash,
cuz I still don't know what
that is I don't I don't get it.
Well, what am I gonna do about that?
Well it turns out, that you need
a certain amount of libraries.
Library code of modules
that these particular
processes and commands need to run.
So if you type ldd.
Bin/bash.
You can see here,
here's all the stuff it depends on.
So you need to bring
all the stuff with us.
So I'm gonna make another two
directories inside of my-new-root, and
I'm gonna make one called lib.
And I also need to make one called lib 64.
Now I could type out my new lib,
lib 64 or I can get really clever and
I can use curly brace.
I can put a comma, which means one
of them is just gonna be called lib.
And then I would put another
one called 64 like that.
So now if I go inside of my-new-root.
You can see I have a lib and a lib64.
Just some clever bash tricks for you.
You can also just type out lib and
then lib64 after that,
it will work just as well.
Makes sense?
So, now we've seen this ldd up here for
bash, so anything that doesn't have
a path up here you can just ignore.
But these ones here that do have paths,
we have to copy all of these into the
correct directories inside of my-new-root.
So I'm gonna say, copy, and
then I'm just gonna copy and paste these.
For this one, copy that.
Copy that, copy that.
And I'm gonna copy that
into my-new-root/lib.
So now if I look inside of
my-new-root inside of the lib,
you can see here, it's got a bunch of
stuff in there that I just copied over.
Now we got one more here,
that's gonna go into the lib64.
You can tell cuz I'm just
looking at where they are here.
And I'm just mimicking
the same directory structure.
Does that make sense?
So I'm gonna copy that into lib64.
So now if you look inside of lib64.
We get that as well.
And in case it's not obvious,
lib64 is for 64 bit and
the lib by implicitly would be 32 bits.
Which is how many bits the processes are.
So now in theory, I should be able to say,
change root my-new-root/ bash.
And look.
Now, I am inside of bash,
inside of that directory.
So if I type ls it's gonna say,
I don't know what that is.
Cuz you don't have anything else.
Some things are just built into
the Linus kernel, so I can say pwd for
what directory I'm in.
You can see that I'm in the root
directory of this particular project.
And I can't really see much else.
So, let's actually go and
make it, so ls works as well so
we can see what else is in our directory.
So if you type exit, that'll get you
out of the cha-root environment.
This will drop you back into Ubuntu.
You can see here now I'm back in this.
So now I'm just gonna say the same thing
for, I'm gonna say copy /bin/ls and
then I'm gonna copy that
into my-new-root/ bin.
So now that's gonna copy ls in there, and
I am gonna have to do the same thing for
ldd /bin/ls.
Same thing.
You'll notice that a bunch
of these are the same,
that I've already copied
some of them over.
So let's just look inside of lib.
So you can see here I haven't copied
that one, so I have to copy that one.
So copy that into,
that one I already have.
You can see that there.
so.2 I have that one.
Looks like I need that one as well.
Nope, nope.
Yes, maybe, yes.
So that one too.
Or you could just copy all of them it
wouldn't do any harm either hurts.
So that's going into my-new-root/lib.
And then we'll look inside
of my-new-root/lib64.
And you can see here I'm gonna
have to copy, not that one.
Sorry, there.
So, now I can go back into chroot
my-new-root/ bash back in here and
in theory, I should be able to say ls,
and it couldn't find that one.
So let's go and make sure that that
one is there as well, I missed one.
That one right there.
Very nice to tell me though,
it's like I can't find this library.
So copy that one into
my-new-root/lib as well.
And now, you can see, if I type ls,
I can actually see what's
inside of my directory.
But if you look inside of pwd, you can see
it thinks it's at the most root directory.
It cannot get out of this, so
it has no concept what's going around it.
It can only see inside of this.
It's been jailed, or the root has
been changed, hence the name cha-root